Chapter01:
import modules from standard python library i.e. sys, datetime, datetime.date.isoformat, time, os, os.environ etc.
one set of indented code is called 'suite"
use "dir" to query an object example dir(random) will display all the attributes to be used with random
asking interpreter for "help" example help(random.randint) - help on method randint in module random:
randit(a, b) method of random.Random instance return random integer in range [a, b], including both end points.

typing Alt-P when using Linux or Windows will display previous command typed in python shell prompt.
typing Ctrl-P when using Mac OS will display previous command typed in python shell prompt.
when importing a module i.e. import random, you need to remember to prefix the call to "randint" with the module name "random" and a dot i.e. "random.randint()"

The "for" loop can be used when you know ahead of time, how many times you want your code to be repeated.
If you don't know how many times your code need to be repeated ahead of time then you use "while" loop.


Important Links:
https://docs.python.org/3/library/index.html
python community link for third party modules for python
http://pypi.python.org

Chapter02:
A variable takes on the type of the value assigned
Everything in python (data values) is an object and any object can be assigned to a variable.
Python has 4 built in data structures: list, tuple, disctionary and set that can be used to hold any collection of objects.
data structures are not modules so don't have to import. They are always available to your code.

Lists are dynamic and can be changed (mutable-can grow or shrink on demand)
Tuple are lists that can not be changed (immutable - fixed)
Lists and Tuple follow a specific order. 
Dictionary is an unordered data structure.



Boolean operators compare statements and result in boolean values. There are three boolean operators:

and, which checks if both the statements are True;
or, which checks if at least one of the statements is True;
not, which gives the opposite of the statement.
